Add docs for routed IPSec (#156)
opnsense/docs: source/manual/how-tos/ipsec-s2s-route.rst

===========================
Setup a routed IPSec Tunnel
===========================

Usually most Site-to-Site VPN are policy-based, which means you define a local and a remote
network (or group of networks). Only traffic matching the defined policy is pushed into the 
VPN tunnel. As the demands for more complex and fault tolerant VPN scenarios growed over the 
years, most major router vendors implemented a kind of VPN, the route-based IPSec. 
The difference is that local and remote network is just 0.0.0.0/0, so anything can travel 

> through the tunnel, it just needs a route! There two huge benefits for this kind of VPN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through the tunnel, it just needs a route. There are two huge benefits for this kind of VPN.
```

> First, you can setup two tunnel to the same gateway and failover when one line goes down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you can set up two tunnels to the same gateway and failover when one line goes down.
```

Second, you can run dynamic routing protocols over the tunnel to create more redundant,
or software-defined networks.

----------------
Before you start
----------------
Before starting with the configuration of an IPsec tunnel you need to have a
working OPNsense installation wit a unique LAN IP subnet for each side of your

> connection (you local network need to different than that of the remote network).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection (your local network needs a different one than the remote network).
```

===========================
Setup a routed IPSec Tunnel
===========================

Usually most Site-to-Site VPN are policy-based, which means you define a local and a remote
network (or group of networks). Only traffic matching the defined policy is pushed into the 
VPN tunnel. As the demands for more complex and fault tolerant VPN scenarios growed over the 
years, most major router vendors implemented a kind of VPN, the route-based IPSec. 

The difference is that local and remote network is just 0.0.0.0/0, so anything can travel 
through the tunnel, it just needs a route. A new Virtual Tunnel Interface (VTI) has to be used
for this. 

> There are two huge benefits for this kind of VPN.

Reviewer: it's exciting for sure, but let's tone down the docs a bit. :)

```suggestion
There are two benefits for this kind of VPN:

```

===========================
Setup a routed IPSec Tunnel
===========================

> Usually most Site-to-Site VPN are policy-based, which means you define a local and a remote

Reviewer 2: “Usually most” is a tautology.
```suggestion
Most Site-to-Site VPNs are policy-based, which means you define a local and a remote
```

        fw2 [shape = "cisco.firewall", address="4.3.2.1/24"];
        Internet;
      }

      network LANB {
        label = " LAN Site B";
        address ="192.168.2.1.x/24";
        fw2 [address="192.168.2.1/24"];
        tunnel;
        switchlanb [label="",shape = "cisco.workgroup_switch"];
      }
      pclanb [label="PC Site B",shape="cisco.pc"];
      pclanb -- switchlanb;

    }

---------------------------------------
Firewall Rules Site A & Site B (part 1)
---------------------------------------
To allow IPsec Tunnel Connections, the following should be allowed on WAN for on
sites (under :menuselection:`Firewall --> Rules --> WAN`):

* Protocol ESP
* UDP Traffic on Port 500 (ISAKMP)
* UDP Traffic on Port 4500 (NAT-T)

.. image:: images/ipsec_wan_rules.png
    :width: 100%

.. Note::

    You can further limit the traffic by the source IP of the remote host.

-----------------------
Step 1 - Phase 1 Site A
-----------------------
(Under :menuselection:`VPN --> IPsec --> Tunnel Settings` Press **+**)
We will use the following settings:

General information
-------------------
========================= ============= ==================================================

> **Connection method**      default       *default is 'Start on traffic'*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Connection method**      default       *Default is “Start on traffic”*
```

**Key Exchange version**   V2
**Internet Protocol**      IPv4

> **Interface**              WAN           *choose the interface connected to the internet*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Interface**              WAN           *Choose the interface connected to the internet*
```

> **Remote gateway**         4.3.2.1       *the public IP address of your remote OPNsense*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Remote gateway**         4.3.2.1       *The public IP address of your remote OPNsense*
```

> **Description**            Site B        *freely chosen description*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Description**            Site B        *Freely chosen description*
```

========================= ============= ==================================================

Phase 1 proposal (Authentication)
---------------------------------
=========================== ====================== ======================================
 **Authentication method**   Mutual PSK             *Using a Pre-shared Key*

>  **My identifier**           My IP address          *Simple identification for fixed ip*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 **My identifier**           My IP address          *Simple identification for fixed IP*
```

>  **Peer identifier**         Peer IP address        *Simple identification for fixed ip*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 **Peer identifier**         Peer IP address        *Simple identification for fixed IP*
```

 **Pre-Shared Key**          At4aDMOAOub2NwT6gMHA   *Random key*. **CREATE YOUR OWN!**
=========================== ====================== ======================================

Phase 1 proposal (Algorithms)
-----------------------------
========================== =============== ===========================================

>  **Encryption algorithm**   AES             *For our sample we will Use AES/256 bits*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 **Encryption algorithm**   AES             *For our sample we will use AES/256 bits*
```

 **Hash algoritm**          SHA512          *Use a strong hash like SHA512*
 **DH key group**           14 (2048 bit)   *2048 bit should be sufficient*

>  **Lifetime**               28800 sec       *lifetime before renegotiation*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 **Lifetime**               28800 sec       *Lifetime before renegotiation*
```

========================== =============== ===========================================

Advanced Options
----------------
======================= =========== ========================================================
**Install Policy**       Unchecked   *This has to be unchecked since we want plain routing*
**Disable Rekey**        Unchecked   *Renegotiate when connection is about to expire*
**Disable Reauth**       Unchecked   *For IKEv2 only re-authenticate peer on rekeying*
**NAT Traversal**        Disabled    *For IKEv2 NAT traversal is always enabled*
**Dead Peer Detection**  Unchecked
======================= =========== ========================================================

Save your setting by pressing:

.. image:: images/btn_save.png

-----------------------
Step 2 - Phase 2 Site A
-----------------------
Press the button that says '+ Show 0 Phase-2 entries'

.. image:: images/ipsec_s2s_vpn_p1a_show_p2.png

You will see an empty list:

.. image:: images/ipsec_s2s_vpn_p1a_p2_empty.png
    :width: 100%

> Now press the *+* at the right of this list to add a Phase 2 entry.

Reviewer 2: You used `**+**` elsewhere. It's better to be consistent throughout the document, so I would change it to `**+**`.
```suggestion
Now press the **+** at the right of this list to add a Phase 2 entry.
```

As we do not define a local and remote network, we just use tunnel addresses,

> you might already know from OpenVPN. In this example we use 10.111.1.1 and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you might already know from OpenVPN. In this example we use ``10.111.1.1`` and 
```

> 10.111.1.2. These will be the gateway addresses used for routing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``10.111.1.2``. These will be the gateway addresses used for routing
```

-------------------
======================= ================== =============================
 **Mode**                Route-based        *Select Route-based*
 **Description**         Local LAN Site B   *Freely chosen description*
======================= ================== =============================

Tunnel Network
--------------
======================= ================== =====================
 **Local Address**       Local Tunnel IP    *Set IP 10.111.1.1*
 **Remote Address**      Remote Tunnel IP   *Set IP 10.111.1.2*
======================= ================== =====================

Phase 2 proposal (SA/Key Exchange)
----------------------------------
=========================== =============== =======================================
**Protocol**                 ESP             *Choose ESP for encryption*
**Encryption algorithms**    AES / 256       *For the sample we use AES 256*
**Hash algortihms**          SHA512          *Choose a strong hash like SHA512*
**PFS Key group**            14 (2048 bit)   *Not required but enhanced security*
**Lifetime**                 3600 sec
=========================== =============== =======================================

> Save your setting by pressing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Save your settings by pressing:
```

.. image:: images/btn_save.png

-----------------------------

Enable IPsec for Site A, Select:

.. image:: images/ipsec_s2s_vpn_p1a_enable.png

Save:

.. image:: images/btn_save.png

And Apply changes:

.. image:: images/ipsec_s2s_vpn_p1a_apply.png
    :width: 100%

------------------

.. image:: images/ipsec_s2s_vpn_p1a_success.png
    :width: 100%

> **You are almost done configuring Site A (only some firewall settings remain, which we'll address later).**

Reviewer 2: I think @fichtner prefers to avoid contractions, since these are a bit informal.
```suggestion
**You are almost done configuring Site A (only some firewall settings remain, which will be addressed later).**
```

**We will now proceed setting up Site B.**

-----------------------------

-----------------------
Step 3 - Phase 1 Site B
-----------------------
(Under :menuselection:`VPN --> IPsec --> Tunnel Settings` Press **+**)
We will use the following settings:

General information
-------------------
========================= ============= ================================================

> **Connection method**      default       *default is 'Start on traffic'*

Reviewer 2: The first letter of the description should be capitalised. I don't want to litter the PR with line notes, so it's probably best if you look through the document yourself.

> **Connection method**      default       *default is 'Start on traffic'*

Reviewer 2: These will need to be capitalised.

**Key Exchange version**   V2
**Internet Protocol**      IPv4
**Interface**              WAN           *choose the interface connected to the internet*
**Remote gateway**         1.2.3.4       *the public IP address of your remote OPNsense*
**Description**            Site A        *freely chosen description*
========================= ============= ================================================

Phase 1 proposal (Authentication)
---------------------------------
=========================== ====================== ======================================
 **Authentication method**   Mutual PSK             *Using a Pre-shared Key*
 **My identifier**           My IP address          *Simple identification for fixed ip*
 **Peer identifier**         Peer IP address        *Simple identification for fixed ip*
 **Pre-Shared Key**          At4aDMOAOub2NwT6gMHA   *Random key*. **CREATE YOUR OWN!**
=========================== ====================== ======================================

Phase 1 proposal (Algorithms)
-----------------------------
========================== =============== ===========================================

>  **Encryption algorithm**   AES             *For our sample we will Use AES/256 bits*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 **Encryption algorithm**   AES             *For our sample we will use AES/256 bits*
```
